quick instructional video today here on
how to change the transmission fluid on
this is a 2003 Honda Element automatic
they stay useful to use only the Honda
transmission fluid so I went to Honda
they have the new ATF dw1
is about nine dollars a quart the
transmission takes to do this I got
about 10 quarts all you need to do is
you put three in you drain it first put
three new quarts in plug up the bottom
back again it goes in right down here to
the logistic down there that yellow just
took down there that's right there
that's where it goes and full we do is
you drain it fill it up with three brand
new quarts of transmission fluid drive
it to open up the gearbox because the
transmission is a gearbox and the
transmission so the transition holds
about three quarts and then the
remaining about six quarts in the
gearbox and to let the transmission food
out of the gearbox and get driving all
gears on the freeway to open it up and
let it out so we're going to drain it
out put three new quarts in and you're
going to need a long extension funnel to
go down and and this goes into where you
check it actually you'll remove the
yellow right there we remove leo
logistic this is to check your levels it
needs to be in between there in between
we see the manual it needs to be in
between the marks there you can see
right there the little X marks so
right here knees in between there and
what we're going to do is drain it out
first use the funnel to put the the new
transmission fluid in goes right there
where you check it where the the
dipstick came out drive it on the
freeway in all gears so it opens it up
open the gearbox come back and then
drain the fluid again put three more
courts in drive it on the freeway open
it up and make sure that it opens the
gearbox up let's all the old transition
pull it out come back and repeat it
again the third time when we fill it up
we'll put about three and a quarter
quarts in just to make sure it's all
filled up all the way so that's where
the transmission fluid goes in its best
to descent the battery or take the
negative off first just to have that out
of the way and when how many problems
make sure you have the code to your
stereo because they will reset that now
to running the transmission fluid you
need to find where the transmission
fluid comes out you need a bucket to
catch the transmission fluid old fluid
and it goes right here
this bolt right here that is where the
transmission fluid comes out so you'll
need to undo that I have a socket wrench
and it fits perfectly in there that it's
not actually you don't need a socket
just put that on there so and undo the
bolt once you want to do that then the
transmission just looks a little bit
with this socket and then twist it off
with your hand let it drain into the
bucket and put it back in and then fill
the transmission pull it up drive on the
freeway come back do it again
driving the freeway come back to it
again I put three quarts in each time
the final time you're going to put the 3
and 1/4 quarts in to fill it up all the
way and that's how you replace and flush
the transmission fluid on the O 3 Honda
Element